<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: Retaliation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
					<p epub:type="title">Retaliation</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
					<p>
						<span>I had a dream, a happy dream;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I thought that I was free:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That in my own bright land again</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A home there was for me.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>With the deepest humiliation Horatio Green saw the daughter of Clotel, his own child, brought into his dwelling as a servant. His wife felt that she had been deceived, and determined to punish her deceiver. At first Mary was put to work in the kitchen, where she met with little or no sympathy from the other slaves, owing to the fairness of her complexion. The child was white, what should be done to make her look like other negroes, was the question <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Green asked herself. At last she hit upon a plan: there was a garden at the back of the house over which <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Green could look from her parlour window. Here the white slave-girl was put to work, without either bonnet or handkerchief upon her head. A hot sun poured its broiling rays on the naked face and neck of the girl, until she sank down in the corner of the garden, and was actually broiled to sleep. “Dat little nigger ain’t working a bit, missus,” said Dinah to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Green, as she entered the kitchen.</p>
			<p>“She’s lying in the sun, seasoning; she will work better by and by,” replied the mistress.</p>
			<p>“Dees white niggers always tink dey sef good as white folks,” continued the cook.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but we will teach them better; won’t we, Dinah?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, missus, I don’t like dees mularter niggers, no how: dey always want to set dey sef up for something big.” The cook was black, and was not without that prejudice which is to be found among the negroes, as well as among the whites of the Southern States.</p>
			<p>The sun had the desired effect, for in less than a fortnight Mary’s fair complexion had disappeared, and she was but little whiter than any other mulatto children running about the yard. But the close resemblance between the father and child annoyed the mistress more than the mere whiteness of the child’s complexion. Horatio made proposition after proposition to have the girl sent away, for every time he beheld her countenance it reminded him of the happy days he had spent with Clotel. But his wife had commenced, and determined to carry out her unfeeling and fiendish designs. This child was not only white, but she was the granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson, the man who, when speaking against slavery in the legislature of Virginia, said,</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>The whole commerce between master and slave is a perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions; <em>the most unremitting despotism on the one part, and degrading submission on the other</em>. With what execration should the statesman be loaded who, permitting one half the citizens thus to trample on the rights of the other, transforms those into despots and these into enemies, destroys the morals of the one part, and the <i xml:lang="la">amor patriæ</i> of the other! For if the slave can have a country in this world, it must be any other in preference to that in which he is born to live and labour for another; in which he must lock up the faculties of his nature, contribute as far as depends on his individual endeavours to the evanishment of the human race, or entail his own miserable condition on the endless generations proceeding from him. And can the liberties of a nation be thought secure when we have removed their only firm basis, a conviction in the minds of the people that these liberties are the gift of God? that they are not to be violated but with his wrath? Indeed, I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just; that his justice cannot sleep forever; that, considering numbers, nature, and natural means only, a revolution of the wheel of fortune, an exchange of situation, is among possible events; that it may become probable by supernatural interference! The Almighty has no attribute which can take side with us in such a contest.</p>
				<p>⋮</p>
				<p>What an incomprehensible machine is man! Who can endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment, and death itself, in vindication of his own liberty, and the next moment be deaf to all those motives, whose power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow-men a bondage, <em>one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he rose in rebellion to oppose</em>! But we must wait with patience the workings of an overruling Providence, and hope that that is preparing the deliverance of these our suffering brethren. When the measure of their tears shall be full⁠—when their tears shall have involved heaven itself in darkness⁠—doubtless a God of justice will awaken to their distress, and by diffusing light and liberality among their oppressors, or at length by his exterminating thunder, manifest his attention to things of this world, and that they are not left to the guidance of blind fatality.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The same man, speaking of the probability that the slaves might some day attempt to gain their liberties by a revolution, said,</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>I tremble for my country, when I recollect that God is just, and that His justice cannot sleep forever. The Almighty has no attribute that can take sides with us in such a struggle.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>But, sad to say, Jefferson is not the only American statesman who has spoken high-sounding words in favour of freedom, and then left his own children to die slaves.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
