<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Narrative of the Life and Escape of William Wells Brown</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="frontmatter">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Narrative of the Life and Escape of William Wells Brown</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
					<p>
						<span>Shall tongues be mute when deeds are wrought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which well might shame extremest Hell?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall freemen lack th’ indignant thought?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall Mercy’s bosom cease to swell?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall Honour bleed?⁠–⁠shall Truth succumb?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall pen, and press, and <em>soul</em> be dumb?</span>
					</p>
					<cite>Whittier</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>William Wells Brown, the subject of this narrative, was born a slave in Lexington, Kentucky, not far from the residence of the late <abbr>Hon.</abbr> Henry Clay. His mother was the slave of Doctor John Young. His father was a slaveholder, and, besides being a near relation of his master, was connected with the Wicklief family, one of the oldest, wealthiest, and most aristocratic of the Kentucky planters. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Young was the owner of forty or fifty slaves, whose chief employment was in cultivating tobacco, hemp, corn, and flax. The Doctor removed from Lexington, when William was five or six years old, to the state of Missouri, and commenced farming in a beautiful and fertile valley, within a mile of the Missouri river.</p>
			<p>Here the slaves were put to work under a harsh and cruel overseer named Cook. A finer situation for a farm could not have been selected in the state. With climate favourable to agriculture, and soil rich, the products came in abundance. At an early age William was separated from his mother, she being worked in the field, and he as a servant in his master’s medical department. When about ten years of age, the young slave’s feelings were much hurt at hearing the cries of his mother, while being flogged by the negro driver for being a few minutes behind the other hands in reaching the field. He heard her cry, “Oh, pray! oh, pray! oh, pray!” These are the words which slaves generally utter when imploring mercy at the hands of their oppressors. The son heard it, though he was some way off. He heard the crack of the whip and the groans of his poor mother. The cold chill ran over him, and he wept aloud; but he was a slave like his mother, and could render her no assistance. He was taught by the most bitter experience that nothing could be more heartrending than to see a dear and beloved mother or sister tortured by unfeeling men, and to hear her cries, and not be able to render the least aid. When William was twelve years of age, his master left his farm and took up his residence near <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis. The Doctor having more hands than he wanted for his own use, William was let out to a <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Freeland, an innkeeper. Here the young slave found himself in the hands of a most cruel and heartless master. Freeland was one of the real chivalry of the South; besides being himself a slaveholder, he was a horse-racer, cock-fighter, gambler, and, to crown the whole, an inveterate drunkard. What else but bad treatment could be expected from such a character? After enduring the tyrannical and inhuman usage of this man for five or six months, William resolved to stand it no longer, and therefore ran away, like other slaves who leave their masters, owing to severe treatment; and not knowing where to flee, the young fugitive went into the forest, a few miles from <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis. He had been in the woods but a short time, when he heard the barking and howling of dogs, and was soon satisfied that he was pursued by the negro dogs; and, aware of their ferocious nature, the fugitive climbed a tree, to save himself from being torn to pieces. The hounds were soon at the trunk of the tree, and remained there, howling and barking, until those in whose charge they were came up. The slave was ordered down, tied, and taken home. Immediately on his arrival there, he was, as he expected, tied up in the smokehouse, and whipped till Freeland was satisfied, and then smoked with tobacco stems. This the slaveholder called <em>“Virginia play.”</em> After being well whipped and smoked, he was again set to work. William remained with this monster a few months longer, and was then let out to Elijah <abbr class="name">P.</abbr> Lovejoy, who years after became the editor of an abolition newspaper, and was murdered at Alton, Illinois, by a mob of slaveholders from the adjoining state of Missouri. The system of letting out slaves is one among the worst of the evils of slavery. The man who hires a slave, looks upon him in the same light as does the man who hires a horse for a limited period; he feels no interest in him, only to get the worth of his money. Not so with the man who owns the slave; he regards him as so much property, of which care should be taken. After being let out to a steamer as an under-steward, William was hired by James Walker, a slave-trader. Here the subject of our memoir was made superintendent of the gangs of slaves that were taken to the New Orleans market. In this capacity, William had opportunities, far greater than most slaves, of acquiring knowledge of the different phases of the <em>“peculiar institution.”</em> Walker was a negro speculator, who was amassing a fortune by trading in the bones, blood, and nerves of God’s children. The thoughts of such a traffic causes us to exclaim with the poet,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>⸻ Is there not some chosen curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some hidden thunder in the stores of heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red with uncommon wrath, to blast the man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who gains his fortune from the blood of souls?</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Between fifty and sixty slaves were chained together, put on board a steamboat bound for New Orleans, and started on the voyage. New and strange scenes began to inspire the young slave with the hope of escaping to a land of freedom. There was in the boat a large room on the lower deck in which the slaves were kept, men and women promiscuously, all chained two and two together, not even leaving the poor slaves the privilege of choosing their partners. A strict watch was kept over them, so that they had no chance of escape. Cases had occurred in which slaves had got off their chains and made their escape at the landing-places, while the boat stopped to take in wood. But with all their care they lost one woman who had been taken from her husband and children, and having no desire to live without them, in the agony of her soul jumped overboard and drowned herself. Her sorrows were greater than she could bear; slavery and its cruel inflictions had broken her heart. She, like William, sighed for freedom, but not the freedom which even British soil confers and inspires, but freedom from torturing pangs, and overwhelming grief.</p>
			<p>At the end of the week they arrived at New Orleans, the place of their destination. Here the slaves were placed in a negro pen, where those who wished to purchase could call and examine them. The negro pen is a small yard surrounded by buildings, from fifteen to twenty feet wide, with the exception of a large gate with iron bars. The slaves are kept in the buildings during the night, and turned into the pen during the day. After the best of the gang were sold off, the balance was taken to the Exchange coffeehouse auction-rooms, and sold at public auction. After the sale of the last slave, William and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Walker left New Orleans for <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis.</p>
			<p>After they had been at <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis a few weeks, another cargo of human flesh was made up. There were amongst the lot several old men and women, some of whom had grey locks. On their way down to New Orleans William had to prepare the old slaves for market. He was ordered to shave off the old men’s whiskers, and to pluck out the grey hairs where they were not too numerous; where they were, he coloured them with a preparation of blacking with a blacking brush. After having gone through the blacking process, they looked ten or fifteen years younger. William, though not well skilled in the use of scissors and razor, performed the office of the barber tolerably. After the sale of this gang of negroes they returned to <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis, and a second cargo was made up. In this lot was a woman who had a child at the breast, yet was compelled to travel through the interior of the country on foot with the other slaves. In a published memoir of his life, William says, “The child cried during the most of the day, which displeased <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Walker, and he told the mother that if her child did not stop crying, he would stop its mouth. After a long and weary journey under a burning sun, we put up for the night at a country inn. The following morning, just as they were about to start, the child again commenced crying. Walker stepped up to her and told her to give the child to him. The mother tremblingly obeyed. He took the child by one arm, as anyone would a cat by the leg, and walked into the house where they had been staying, and said to the lady, ‘Madam, I will make you a present of this little nigger; it keeps making such a noise that I can’t bear it.’ ‘Thank you, sir,’ said the lady. The mother, as soon as she saw that her child was to be left, ran up to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Walker, and falling on her knees, begged of him in an agony of despair, to let her have her child. She clung round his legs so closely, that for some time he could not kick her off; and she cried, ‘O my child, my child. Master, do let me have my dear, dear child. Oh! do, do. I will stop its crying and love you forever if you will only let me have my child again.’ But her prayers were not heeded, they passed on, and the mother was separated from her child forever.</p>
			<p>“After the woman’s child had been given away, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Walker rudely commanded her to retire into the ranks with the other slaves. Women who had children were not chained, but those who had none were. As soon as her child was taken she was chained to the gang.”</p>
			<p>Some time after this, Walker bought a woman who had a blind child; it being considered worthless, it was given to the trader by the former owner of the woman on the score of humanity, he saying that he wished to keep mother and child together. At first Walker declined taking the child, saying that it would be too much trouble, but the mother wishing to have her boy with her, begged him to take it, promising to carry it the whole distance in her arms. Consequently he took the child, and the gang started on their route to the nearest steamboat landing, which was above one hundred miles. As might have been expected, the woman was unable to carry the boy and keep up with the rest of the gang. They put up at night at a small town, and the next morning, when about to start, Walker took the little boy from its mother and sold it to the innkeeper for the small sum of <em>one dollar</em>. The poor woman was so frantic at the idea of being separated from her only child, that it seemed impossible to get her to leave it. Not until the chains were put upon her limbs, and she fastened to the other slaves, could they get her to leave the spot. By main force this slave mother was compelled to go on and leave her child behind. Some days after, a lady from one of the free states was travelling the same road and put up at the same inn: she saw the child the morning after her arrival, and heard its history from one of the slaves, which was confirmed by the innkeeper’s wife. A few days after, the following poem appeared in one of the newspapers, from the pen of the lady who had seen the blind child:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Come back to me, mother! why linger away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From thy poor little blind boy, the long weary day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mark every footstep, I list to each tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wonder my mother should leave me alone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are voices of sorrow and voices of glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there’s no one to joy or to sorrow with me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For each hath of pleasure and trouble his share,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none for the poor little blind boy will care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My mother, come back to me! close to thy breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once more let thy poor little blind one be pressed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once more let me feel thy warm breath on my cheek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear thee in accents of tenderness speak!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O mother! I’ve no one to love me⁠—no heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can bear like thy own in my sorrows a part;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No hand is so gentle, no voice is so kind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh! none like a mother can cherish the blind!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor blind one! no mother thy wailing can bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mother can hasten to banish thy fear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the slave-owner drives her, o’er mountain and wild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for one paltry dollar hath sold thee, poor child!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! who can in language of mortals reveal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The anguish that none but a mother can feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When man in his vile lust of mammon hath trod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On her child, who is stricken and smitten of God!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Blind, helpless, forsaken, with strangers alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She hears in her anguish his piteous moan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he eagerly listens⁠—but listens in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To catch the loved tones of his mother again!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The curse of the broken in spirit shall fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the wretch who hath mingled this wormwood and gall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his gain like a mildew shall blight and destroy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hath torn from his mother the little blind boy.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The thought that man can so debase himself as to treat a fellow-creature as here represented, is enough to cause one to blush at the idea that such men are members of a civilised and Christian nation.</p>
			<p>Nothing was more grievous to the sensitive feelings of William, than seeing the separation of families by the slave-trader: husbands taken from their wives, and mothers from their children, without the least appearance of feeling on the part of those who separated them. While at New Orleans on one occasion, William saw a slave murdered. The circumstances were as follows:⁠—In the evening, between seven and eight o’clock, a slave came running down the levee, followed by several men and boys. The whites were crying out, “Stop that nigger! stop that nigger!” while the poor panting slave, in almost breathless accents, was repeating, “I did not steal the meat⁠—I did not steal the meat.” The poor man at last took refuge in the river. The whites who were in pursuit of him, ran on board of one of the boats to see if they could discover him. They finally espied him under the bow of the steamboat <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Trenton</i>. They got a pike-pole and tried to drive him from his hiding-place. When they struck at him he would dive under the water. The water was so cold that it soon became evident that he must come out or be drowned.</p>
			<p>While they were trying to drive him from under the boat or drown him, he in broken and imploring accents said, “I did not steal the meat; I did not steal the meat. My master lives up the river. I want to see my master. I did not steal the meat. Do let me go home to master.” After punching and striking him over the head for some time, he at last sunk in the water, to rise no more alive.</p>
			<p>On the end of the pike-pole with which they had been striking him was a hook, which caught in his clothing, and they hauled him up on the bow of the boat. Some said he was dead; others said he was “playing ’possum;” while others kicked him to make him get up; but it was of no use⁠—he was dead.</p>
			<p>As soon as they became satisfied of this they commenced leaving one after another. One of the hands on the boat informed the captain that they had killed the man, and that the dead body was lying on the deck. The captain, whose name was Hart, came on deck, and said to those who were remaining, “You have killed this nigger; now take him off my boat.” The dead body was dragged on shore and left there. William went on board of the boat where the gang of slaves were, and during the whole night his mind was occupied with what he had seen. Early in the morning he went on shore to see if the dead body remained there. He found it in the same position that it was left the night before. He watched to see what they would do with it. It was left there until between eight and nine o’clock, when a cart, which took up the trash from the streets, came along, and the body was thrown in, and in a few minutes more was covered over with dirt which they were removing from the streets.</p>
			<p>At the expiration of the period of his hiring with Walker, William returned to his master, rejoiced to have escaped an employment as much against his own feelings as it was repugnant to human nature. But this joy was of short duration. The Doctor wanted money, and resolved to sell William’s sister and two brothers. The mother had been previously sold to a gentleman residing in the city of <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis. William’s master now informed him that he intended to sell him, and, as he was his own nephew, he gave him the privilege of finding someone to purchase him who would treat him better than if he was sold on the auction block. William tried to make some arrangement by which he could purchase his own freedom, but the old Doctor would hear nothing of the kind. If there is one thing more revolting in the trade of human flesh than another, it is the selling of one’s own blood relations.</p>
			<p>He accordingly set out for the city in search of a new master. When he arrived there, he proceeded to the gaol with the hope of seeing his sister, but was again disappointed. On the following morning he made another attempt, and was allowed to see her once, for the last time. When he entered the room where she was seated in one corner, alone and disconsolate, there were four other women in the room, belonging to the same man, who were bought, the gaoler said, for the master’s own use.</p>
			<p>William’s sister was seated with her face towards the door when he entered, but her gaze was transfixed on nothingness, and she did not look up when he walked up to her; but as soon as she observed him she sprang up, threw her arms around his neck, leaned her head upon his breast, and without uttering a word, in silent, indescribable sorrow, burst into tears. She remained so for some minutes, but when she recovered herself sufficiently to speak, she urged him to take his mother immediately, and try to get to the land of freedom. She said there was no hope for herself, she must live and die a slave. After giving her some advice, and taking a ring from his finger, he bade her farewell forever. Reader, did ever a fair sister of thine go down to the grave prematurely, if so, perchance, thou hast drank deeply from the cup of sorrow? But how infinitely better is it for a sister to “go into the silent land” with her honour untarnished, but with bright hopes, than for her to be sold to sensual slaveholders.</p>
			<p>William had been in the city now two days, and as he was to be absent for only a week, it was well that he should make the best use of his time if he intended to escape. In conversing with his mother, he found her unwilling to make the attempt to reach the land of liberty, but she advised him by all means to get there himself if he possibly could. She said, as all her children were in slavery, she did not wish to leave them; but he loved his mother so intensely, that he could not think of leaving without her. He consequently used all his simple eloquence to induce her to fly with him, and at last he prevailed. They consequently fixed upon the next night as the time for their departure. The time at length arrived, and they left the city just as the clock struck nine. Having found a boat, they crossed the river in it. Whose boat it was he did not know; neither did he care: when it had served his purpose, he turned it adrift, and when he saw it last, it was going at a good speed down the river. After walking in the main road as fast as they could all night, when the morning came they made for the woods, and remained there during the day, but when night came again, they proceeded on their journey with nothing but the North Star to guide them. They continued to travel by night, and to bury themselves in the silent solitudes of the forest by day. Hunger and fatigue could not stop them, for the prospect of freedom at the end of the journey nerved them up. The very thought of leaving slavery, with its democratic whips, republican chains, and bloodhounds, caused the hearts of the weary fugitives to leap with joy. After travelling ten nights and hiding in the woods during the day for fear of being arrested and taken back, they thought they might with safety go the rest of their way by daylight. In nearly all the free states there are men who make a business of catching runaway slaves and returning them to their owners for the reward that may be offered; some of these were on the alert for William and his mother, for they had already seen the runaways advertised in the <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis newspapers.</p>
			<p>All at once they heard the click of a horse’s hoof, and looking back saw three men on horseback galloping towards them. They soon came up, and demanded them to stop. The three men dismounted, arrested them on a warrant, and showed them a handbill, offering two hundred dollars for their apprehension and delivery to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Young and Isaac Mansfield in <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis.</p>
			<p>While they were reading the handbill, William’s mother looked him in the face, and burst into tears. “A cold chill ran over me,” says he, “and such a sensation I never experienced before, and I trust I never shall again.” They took out a rope and tied him, and they were taken back to the house of the individual who appeared to be the leader. They then had something given them to eat, and were separated. Each of them was watched over by two men during the night. The religious characteristic of the American slaveholder soon manifested itself, as before the family retired to rest they were all called together to attend prayers; and the very man who, but a few hours before, had arrested poor panting, fugitive slaves, now read a chapter from the Bible and offered a prayer to God; as if that benignant and omnipotent One consecrated the infernal act he had just committed.</p>
			<p>The next morning they were chained and handcuffed, and started back to <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis. A journey of three days brought the fugitives again to the place they had left twelve days previously with the hope that they would never return. They were put in prison to await the orders of their owners. When a slave attempts to escape and fails, he feels sure of either being severely punished, or sold to the negro traders and taken to the far south, there to be worked up on a cotton, sugar, or rice plantation. This William and his mother dreaded. While they were in suspense as to what would be their fate, news came to them that the mother had been sold to a slave speculator. William was soon sold to a merchant residing in the city, and removed to his new owner’s dwelling. In a few days the gang of slaves, of which William’s mother was one, were taken on board a steamer to be carried to the New Orleans market. The young slave obtained permission from his new owner to go and take a last farewell of his mother. He went to the boat, and found her there, chained to another woman, and the whole number of slaves, amounting to some fifty or sixty, chained in the same manner. As the son approached his mother she moved not, neither did she weep; her emotions were too deep for tears. William approached her, threw his arms around her neck, kissed her, fell upon his knees begging her forgiveness, for he thought he was to blame for her sad condition, and if he had not persuaded her to accompany him she might not have been in chains then.</p>
			<p>She remained for some time apparently unimpressionable, tearless, sighless, but in the innermost depths of her heart moved mighty passions. William says, “She finally raised her head, looked me in the face, and such a look none but an angel can give, and said, ‘My dear son, you are not to blame for my being here. You have done nothing more nor less than your duty. Do not, I pray you, weep for me; I cannot last long upon a cotton plantation. I feel that my heavenly Master will soon call me home, and then I shall be out of the hands of the slaveholders.’ I could hear no more⁠—my heart struggled to free itself from the human form. In a moment she saw <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mansfield, her master, coming toward that part of the boat, and she whispered in my ear, ‘My child, we must soon part to meet no more on this side of the grave. You have ever said that you would not die a slave; that you would be a freeman. Now try to get your liberty! You will soon have no one to look after but yourself!’ and just as she whispered the last sentence into my ear, Mansfield came up to me, and with an oath said, ‘Leave here this instant; you have been the means of my losing one hundred dollars to get this wench back’⁠—at the same time kicking me with a heavy pair of boots. As I left her she gave one shriek, saying, ‘God be with you!’ It was the last time that I saw her, and the last word I heard her utter.</p>
			<p>“I walked on shore. The bell was tolling. The boat was about to start. I stood with a heavy heart, waiting to see her leave the wharf. As I thought of my mother, I could but feel that I had lost</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The glory of my life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My blessing and my pride!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I half forgot the name of slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When she was by my side.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“The love of liberty that had been burning in my bosom had well-nigh gone out. I felt as though I was ready to die. The boat moved gently from the wharf, and while she glided down the river, I realised that my mother was indeed</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Gone⁠—gone⁠—sold and gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the rice swamp, dark and lone!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“After the boat was out of sight I returned home; but my thoughts were so absorbed in what I had witnessed that I knew not what I was about. Night came, but it brought no sleep to my eyes.” When once the love of freedom is born in the slave’s mind, it always increases and brightens, and William having heard so much about Canada, where a number of his acquaintances had found a refuge and a home, he heartily desired to join them. Building castles in the air in the daytime; incessantly thinking of freedom, he would dream of the land of liberty, but on waking in the morning would weep to find it but a dream.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>He would dream of Victoria’s domain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a moment he seemed to be there;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the fear of being taken again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon hurried him back to despair.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Having been for some time employed as a servant in an hotel, and being of a very active turn, William’s new owner resolved to let him out on board a steamboat. Consequently the young slave was hired out to the steamer <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat"><abbr>St.</abbr> Louis</i>, and soon after sold to Captain Enoch Price, the owner of that boat. Here he was destined to remain but a short period, as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Price wanted a carriage-driver, and had set her heart upon William for that purpose.</p>
			<p>Scarcely three months had elapsed from the time that William became the property of Captain Price, ere that gentleman’s family took a pleasure trip to New Orleans, and William accompanied them. From New Orleans the family proceeded to Louisville. The hope of escape again dawned upon the slave’s mind, and the trials of the past were lost in hopes for the future. The love of liberty, which had been burning in his bosom for years, and which at times had been well nigh extinguished, was now resuscitated. Hopes nurtured in childhood, and strengthened as manhood dawned, now spread their sails to the gales of his imagination. At night, when all around was peaceful, and in the mystic presence of the everlasting starlight, he would walk the steamer’s decks, meditating on his happy prospects, and summoning up gloomy reminiscences of the dear hearts he was leaving behind him. When not thinking of the future his mind would dwell on the past. The love of a dear mother, a dear and affectionate sister, and three brothers yet living, caused him to shed many tears. If he could only be assured of their being dead, he would have been comparatively happy; but he saw in imagination his mother in the cotton-field, followed by a monster taskmaster, and no one to speak a consoling word to her. He beheld his sister in the hands of the slave-driver, compelled to submit to his cruelty, or, what was unutterably worse, his lust; but still he was far away from them, and could not do anything for them if he remained in slavery; consequently he resolved, and consecrated the resolve with a prayer, that he would start on the first opportunity.</p>
			<p>That opportunity soon presented itself. When the boat got to the wharf where it had to stay for some time, at the first convenient moment Brown made towards the woods, where he remained until nighttime. He dared not walk during the day, even in the state of Ohio; he had seen so much of the perfidy of white men, and resolved, if possible, not to get into their hands. After darkness covered the world, he emerged from his hiding-place; but he did not know east from west, or north from south; clouds hid the North Star from his view. In this desolate condition he remained for some hours, when the clouds rolled away, and his friend, with its shining face⁠—the North Star⁠—welcomed his sight. True as the needle to the pole he obeyed its attractive beauty, and walked on till daylight dawned.</p>
			<p>It was wintertime; the day on which he started was the 1st of January, and, as it might be expected, it was intensely cold; he had no overcoat, no food, no friend save the North Star and the God which made it. How ardently must the love of freedom burn in the poor slave’s bosom, when he will pass through so many difficulties, and even look death in the face, in winning his birthright, freedom. But what crushed the poor slave’s heart in his flight most was not the want of food or clothing, but the thought that every white man was his deadly enemy. Even in the free states the prejudice against colour is so strong that there appears to exist a deadly antagonism between the white and coloured races.</p>
			<p>William in his flight carried a tinderbox with him, and when he got very cold he would gather together dry leaves and stubble and make a fire, or certainly he would have perished. He was determined to enter into no house, fearing that he might meet a betrayer.</p>
			<p>It must have been a picture which would have inspired an artist, to see the fugitive roasting the ears of corn that he found or took from barns during the night, at solitary fires in the deep solitudes of woods.</p>
			<p>The suffering of the fugitive was greatly increased by the cold, from the fact of his having just come from the warm climate of New Orleans. Slaves seldom have more than one name, and William was not an exception to this, and the fugitive began to think of an additional name. A heavy rain of three days, in which it froze as fast as it fell, and by which the poor fugitive was completely drenched, and still more chilled, added to the depression of his spirits already created by his weary journey. Nothing but the fire of hope burning within his breast could have sustained him under such overwhelming trials,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Behind he left the whip and chains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before him were sweet Freedom’s plains.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Through cold and hunger, William was now ill, and he could go no further. The poor fugitive resolved to seek protection, and accordingly hid himself in the woods near the road, until someone should pass. Soon a traveller came along, but the slave dared not speak. A few moments more and a second passed, the fugitive attempted to speak, but fear deprived him of voice. A third made his appearance. He wore a broad-brimmed hat and a long coat, and was evidently walking only for exercise. William scanned him well, and though not much skilled in physiognomy, he concluded he was the man. William approached him, and asked him if he knew anyone who would help him, as he was sick? The gentleman asked whether he was not a slave. The poor slave hesitated; but, on being told that he had nothing to fear, he answered, “Yes.” The gentleman told him he was in a pro-slaving neighbourhood, but, if he would wait a little, he would go and get a covered wagon, and convey him to his house. After he had gone, the fugitive meditated whether he should stay or not, being apprehensive that the broad-brimmed gentleman had gone for someone to assist him: he however concluded to remain.</p>
			<p>After waiting about an hour⁠—an hour big with fate to him⁠—he saw the covered wagon making its appearance, and no one on it but the person he before accosted. Trembling with hope and fear, he entered the wagon, and was carried to the person’s house. When he got there, he still halted between two opinions, whether he should enter or take to his heels; but he soon decided after seeing the glowing face of the wife. He saw something in her that bid him welcome, something that told him he would not be betrayed.</p>
			<p>He soon found that he was under the shed of a Quaker, and a Quaker of the George Fox stamp. He had heard of Quakers and their kindness; but was not prepared to meet with such hospitality as now greeted him. He saw nothing but kind looks, and heard nothing but tender words. He began to feel the pulsations of a new existence. White men always scorned him, but now a white benevolent woman felt glad to wait on him; it was a revolution in his experience. The table was loaded with good things, but he could not eat. If he were allowed the privilege of sitting in the kitchen, he thought he could do justice to the viands. The surprise being over his appetite soon returned.</p>
			<p>“I have frequently been asked,” says William, “how I felt upon finding myself regarded as a man by a white family; especially having just run away from one. I cannot say that I have ever answered the question yet. The fact that I was, in all probability, a freeman, sounded in my ears like a charm. I am satisfied that none but a slave could place such an appreciation upon liberty as I did at that time. I wanted to see my mother and sister, that I might tell them that ‘I was free!’ I wanted to see my fellow-slaves in <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis, and let them know that the chains were no longer upon my limbs. I wanted to see Captain Price, and let him learn from my own lips that I was no more a chattel, but a <em>man</em>. I was anxious, too, thus to inform <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Price that she must get another coachman, and I wanted to see Eliza more than I did <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Price or <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Price. The fact that I was a freeman⁠—could walk, talk, eat, and sleep as a man, and no one to stand over me with the blood-clotted cowhide⁠—all this made me feel that I was not myself.”</p>
			<p>The kind Quaker, who so hospitably entertained William, was called Wells Brown. He remained with him about a fortnight, during which time he was well fed and clothed. Before leaving, the Quaker asked him what was his name besides William? The fugitive told him he had no other. “Well,” said he, “thee must have another name. Since thee has got out of slavery, thee has become a man, and men always have two names.”</p>
			<p>William told him that as he was the first man to extend the hand of friendship to him, he would give him the privilege of naming him.</p>
			<p>“If I name thee,” said he, “I shall call thee Wells Brown, like myself.”</p>
			<p>“But,” said he, “I am not willing to lose my name of William. It was taken from me once against my will, and I am not willing to part with it on any terms.”</p>
			<p>“Then,” said the benevolent man, “I will call thee William Wells Brown.”</p>
			<p>“So be it,” said William Wells Brown, and he has been known by this name ever since.</p>
			<p>After giving the newly-christened freeman “a name,” the Quaker gave him something to aid him to get “a local habitation.” So, after giving him some money, Brown again started for Canada. In four days he reached a public-house, and went in to warm himself. He soon found that he was not out of the reach of his enemies. While warming himself, he heard some men in an adjoining barroom talking about some runaway slaves. He thought it was time to be off, and, suiting the action to the thought, he was soon in the woods out of sight. When night came, he returned to the road and walked on; and so, for two days and two nights, till he was faint and ready to perish of hunger.</p>
			<p>In this condition he arrived in the town of Cleveland, Ohio, on the banks of Lake Erie, where he determined to remain until the spring of the year, and then to try and reach Canada. Here he was compelled to work merely for his food. “Having lived in that way,” said he in a speech at a public meeting in Exeter Hall, “for some weeks, I obtained a job, for which I received a shilling. This was not only the only shilling I had, but it was the first I had received after obtaining my freedom, and that shilling made me feel, indeed, as if I had a considerable stock in hand. What to do with my shilling I did not know. I would not put it into the bankers’ hands, because, if they would have received it, I would not trust them. I would not lend it out, because I was afraid I should not get it back again. I carried the shilling in my pocket for some time, and finally resolved to lay it out; and after considerable thinking upon the subject, I laid out 6<abbr>d.</abbr> for a spelling-book, and the other 6<abbr>d.</abbr> for sugar candy or barley sugar. Well, now, you will all say that the one 6<abbr>d.</abbr> for the spelling-book was well laid out; and I am of opinion that the other was well laid out too; for the family in which I worked for my bread had two little boys, who attended the school every day, and I wanted to convert them into teachers; so I thought that nothing would act like a charm so much as a little barley sugar. The first day I got my book and stock in trade, I put the book into my bosom, and went to saw wood in the wood-house on a very cold day. One of the boys, a little after four o’clock, passed through the wood-house with a bag of books. I called to him, and I said to him, ‘Johnny, do you see this?’ taking a stick of barley sugar from my pocket and showing it to him. Says he, ‘Yes; give me a taste of it.’ Said I, ‘I have got a spelling-book too,’ and I showed that to him. ‘Now,’ said I, ‘if you come to me in my room, and teach me my A.B.C., I will give you a whole stick.’ ‘Very well,’ said he, ‘I will; but let me taste it.’ ‘No; I can’t.’ ‘Let me have it now.’ Well, I thought I had better give him a little taste, until the right time came; and I marked the barley sugar about a quarter of an inch down, and told him to bite that far and no farther. He made a grab, and bit half the stick, and ran off laughing. I put the other piece in my pocket, and after a little while the other boy, little David, came through the wood-house with his books. I said nothing about the barley sugar, or my wish to get education. I knew the other lad would communicate the news to him. In a little while he returned, and said, ‘Bill, John says you have got some barley sugar.’ ‘Well,’ I said, ‘what of that?’ ‘He said you gave him some; give me a little taste.’ ‘Well, if you come tonight and help me to learn my letters, I will give you a whole stick.’ ‘Yes; but let me taste it.’ ‘Ah! but you want to bite it.’ ‘No, I don’t, but just let me taste it.’ Well, I thought I had better show it to him. ‘Now,’ said he, ‘let me touch my tongue against it.’ I thought then that I had better give him a taste, but I would not trust him so far as I trusted John; so I called him to me, and got his head under my arm, and took him by the chin, and told him to hold out his tongue; and as he did so, I drew the barley sugar over very lightly. He said, ‘That’s very nice; just draw it over again.’ ‘I could stand here and let you draw it across my tongue all day.’ The night came on; the two boys came out of their room up into the attic where I was lodging, and there they commenced teaching me the letters of the alphabet. We all laid down upon the floor, covered with the same blanket; and first one would teach me a letter, and then the other, and I would pass the barley sugar from one side to the other. I kept those two boys on my sixpenny worth of barley sugar for about three weeks. Of course I did not let them know how much I had. I first dealt it out to them a quarter of a stick at a time. I worked along in that way, and before I left that place where I was working for my bread, I got so that I could spell. I had a book that had the word ‘baker’ in it, and the boys used to think that when they got so far as that, they were getting on pretty well. I had often passed by the schoolhouse, and stood and listened at the window to hear them spell, and I knew that when they could spell ‘baker’ they thought something of themselves; and I was glad when I got that far. Before I left that place I could read. Finally, from that I went on until I could write. How do you suppose I first commenced writing? for you will understand that up to the present time I never spent a day in school in my life, for I had no money to pay for schooling, so that I had to get my learning first from one and then from another. I carried a piece of chalk in my pocket, and whenever I met a boy I would stop him and take out my chalk and get at a board fence and then commence. First I made some flourishes with no meaning, and called a boy up, and said, ‘Do you see that? Can you beat that writing?’ Said he, ‘That’s not writing.’ Well, I wanted to get so as to write my own name. I had got out of slavery with only one name. While escaping, I received the hospitality of a very good man, who had spared part of his name to me, and finally my name got pretty long, and I wanted to be able to write it. ‘Now, what do you call that?’ said the boy, looking at my flourishes. I said, ‘Is not that “William Wells Brown?” ’ ‘Give me the chalk,’ says he, and he wrote out in large letters ‘William Wells Brown,’ and I marked up the fence for nearly a quarter of a mile, trying to copy, till I got so that I could write my name. Then I went on with my chalking, and, in fact, all board fences within half a mile of where I lived were marked over with some kind of figures I had made, in trying to learn how to write. I next obtained an arithmetic, and then a grammar, and I stand here tonight, without having had a day’s schooling in my life.” Such were some of the efforts made by a fugitive slave to obtain for himself an education. Soon after his escape, Brown was married to a free coloured woman, by whom he has had three daughters, one of whom died in infancy. Having tasted the sweets of freedom himself, his great desire was to extend its blessing to his race, and in the language of the poet he would ask himself,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Is true freedom but to break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fetters for our own dear sake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with leathern hearts forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That we owe mankind a debt?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No! true freedom is to share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the chains our brothers wear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with heart and hand to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Earnest to make others free.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>While acting as a servant to one of the steamers on Lake Erie, Brown often took fugitives from Cleveland and other ports to Buffalo or Detroit, from either of which places they could cross to Canada in an hour. During the season of 1842, this fugitive slave conveyed no less than <em>sixty-nine</em> runaway slaves across Lake Erie, and placed them safe on the soil of Canada. The following interesting account of Brown’s first going into business for himself, which we transcribe from his <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Three Years in Europe</i>, will show the energy of the man. He says, “In the autumn of 1835, having been cheated out of the previous summer’s earnings by the captain of the steamer in which I had been employed running away with the money, I was, like the rest of the men, left without any means of support during the winter, and therefore had to seek employment in the neighbouring towns. I went to the town of Monroe in the state of Michigan, and while going through the principal streets looking for work, I passed the door of the only barber in the town, whose shop appeared to be filled with persons waiting to be shaved. As there was but one man at work, and as I had, while employed in the steamer, occasionally shaved a gentleman who could not perform that office himself, it occurred to me that I might get employment here as a journeyman barber. I therefore made immediate application for work, but the barber told me he did not need a hand. But I was not to be put off so easily, and after making several offers to work cheap. I frankly told him, that if he would not employ me, I would get a room near him, and set up an opposition establishment. This threat, however, made no impression on the barber; and as I was leaving, one of the men, who were waiting to be shaved, said, ‘If you want a room in which to commence business, I have one on the opposite side of the street.’ This man followed me out; we went over, and I looked at the room. He strongly urged me to set up, at the same time promising to give me his influence. I took the room, purchased an old table, two chairs, got a pole with a red stripe painted around it, and the next day opened, with a sign over the door, ‘Fashionable Hairdresser from New York, Emperor of the West.’ I need not add that my enterprise was very annoying to the ‘shop over the way,’ especially my sign, which happened to be the most extensive part of the concern. Of course I had to tell all who came in that my neighbour on the opposite side did not keep clean towels, that his razors were dull, and, above all, he never had been to New York to see the fashions. Neither had I. In a few weeks I had the entire business of the town, to the great discomfiture of the other barber. At this time, money matters in the Western States were in a sad condition. Any person who could raise a small amount of money was permitted to establish a bank, and allowed to issue notes for four times the sum raised. This being the case, many persons borrowed money merely long enough to exhibit to the bank inspectors, and the borrowed money was returned, and the bank left without a dollar in its vaults, if indeed it had a vault about its premises. The result was that banks were started all over the Western States, and the country flooded with worthless paper. These were known as the ‘Wild Cat Banks.’ Silver coin being very scarce, and the banks not being allowed to issue notes for a smaller amount than one dollar, several persons put out notes of from 6 to 75 cents in value; these were called ‘Shinplasters.’ The Shinplaster was in the shape of a promissory note, made payable on demand. I have often seen persons with large rolls of these bills, the whole not amounting to more than five dollars. Some weeks after I had commenced business on my ‘own hook,’ I was one evening very much crowded with customers; and while they were talking over the events of the day, one of them said to me, ‘Emperor, you seem to be doing a thriving business. You should do as other business men, issue your Shinplasters.’ This of course, as it was intended, created a laugh; but with me it was no laughing matter, for from that moment I began to think seriously of becoming a banker. I accordingly went a few days after to a printer, and he, wishing to get the job of printing, urged me to put out my notes, and showed me some specimens of engravings that he had just received from Detroit. My head being already filled with the idea of the bank, I needed but little persuasion to set the thing finally afloat. Before I left the printer the notes were partly in type, and I studying how I should keep the public from counterfeiting them. The next day, my Shinplasters were handed to me, the whole amount being twenty dollars; and, after being duly signed, were ready for circulation. The first night I had my money, my head was so turned and dizzy that I could not sleep. In fact, I slept but little for weeks after the issuing of my bills. This fact satisfied me, that people of wealth pass many sleepless hours. At first my notes did not take well; they were too new, and viewed with a suspicious eye. But through the assistance of my customers, and a good deal of exertion on my part, my bills were soon in circulation; and nearly all the money received in return for my notes was spent in fitting up and decorating my shop. Few bankers get through this world without their difficulties, and I was not to be an exception. A short time after my money had been out, a party of young men, either wishing to pull down my vanity, or to try the soundness of my bank, determined to give it ‘a run.’ After collecting together a number of my bills, they came one at a time to demand other money for them; and I, not being aware of what was going on, was taken by surprise. One day as I was sitting at my table, stropping some new razors I had just purchased with the avails of my Shinplasters, one of the men entered and said, ‘Emperor, you will oblige me if you will give me some other money for these notes of yours.’ I immediately cashed the notes with the most worthless of the Wild Cat money that I had on hand, but which was a lawful tender. The young man had scarcely left, when a second appeared with a similar amount, and demanded payment. These were cashed, and soon a third came with his roll of notes. I paid these with an air of triumph, although I had but half a dollar left. I began now to think seriously what I should do, or how to act, provided another demand should be made. While I was thus engaged in thought, I saw the fourth man crossing the street with a handful of notes, evidently my Shinplasters. I instantaneously shut the door, and looking out of the window said, ‘I have closed business for today: come tomorrow and I will see you.’ In looking across the street, I saw my rival standing at his shopdoor, grinning and clapping his hands at my apparent downfall. I was completely ‘done <em>Brown</em>’ for the day. However, I was not to be ‘used up’ in this way; so I escaped by the back door, and went in search of my friend, who had first suggested to me the idea of issuing my notes. I found him, told him of the difficulty I was in, and wished him to point out a way by which I might extricate myself. He laughed heartily at my sad position, and then said, ‘You must act as all bankers do in this part of the country.’ I inquired how they did; and he said, ‘when your notes are brought to you, you must redeem them, and then send them out and get other money for them; and, with the latter, you can keep cashing your own Shinplasters.’ This was, indeed, a new idea for me. I immediately commenced putting in circulation the notes which I had just redeemed, and my efforts, together with the aid of my friend, who, like a philanthropist and Western Christian as he was, were crowned with such success that, before I slept that night, my Shinplasters were again in circulation, and my bank once more on a sound basis.”</p>
			<p>In proportion as his mind expanded under the more favourable circumstances in which Brown was placed, he became anxious, not merely for the redemption of his race from personal slavery, but for the moral and religious elevation of those who were free. Finding that habits of intoxication were too prevalent among his coloured brethren, he, in conjunction with others, commenced a temperance reformation in their body. Such was the success of their efforts that, in three years, in the city of Buffalo alone, a society of upwards of 500 members was raised out of a coloured population of less than 700. Of that society <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown was thrice elected president. The intellectual powers of our author, coupled with his intimate acquaintance with the workings of the slave system, early recommended him to the Abolitionists as a man eminently qualified to arouse the attention of the people of the Northern States to the great national sin of America. In 1843, he was engaged by the Western New York Anti-Slavery Society as a lecturing agent. From 1844 to 1847, he laboured in the Anti-Slavery cause in connection with the American Anti-Slavery Society; and from that period up to the time of his departure for Europe, in 1849, he was an agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. The records of these societies furnish abundant evidence of the success of his labours. From the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society he early received the following testimonial. “Since <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown became an agent of this society, he has lectured in very many of the towns of this commonwealth, and gained for himself the respect and esteem of all whom he met. Himself a fugitive slave, he can experimentally describe the situation of those in bonds as bound with them; and he powerfully illustrates the diabolism of that system which keeps in chains and darkness a host of minds, which, if free and enlightened, would shine among men like stars in the firmament.” Another member of that society speaks thus of him: “I need not attempt any description of the ability and efficiency which characterised the speeches of William Wells Brown throughout the meeting. To you who know him so well, it is enough to say that his lectures were worthy of himself. He has left an impression on the minds of the people that few could have done. Cold indeed must be the hearts that could resist the appeals of so noble a specimen of humanity, in behalf of a crushed and despised race.”</p>
			<p>In 1847, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown wrote a narrative of his life and escape from slavery, which rapidly ran through several editions. A copy of this he forwarded to his old master, from whom he had escaped, and soon after a friend of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown’s received the following letter:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><abbr>St.</abbr> Louis, <abbr>Jan.</abbr> 10th, 1848.</p>
				</header>
				<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Sir⁠—</span>I received a pamphlet, or a narrative, so called on the title-page, of the Life of William <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Brown, a fugitive slave, purporting to have been written by himself; and in his book I see a letter from you to the said William <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Brown. This said Brown is named William; he is a slave belonging to me, and ran away from me the first day of January, 1834.</p>
				<p>I purchased him of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="initialism name">S.</abbr> Willi, the last of September, 1833. I paid six hundred and fifty dollars for him. If I had wanted to speculate on him, I could have sold him for three times as much as I paid for him. I was offered two thousand dollars for him in New Orleans at one time, and fifteen hundred dollars for him at another time, in Louisville, Kentucky. But I would not sell him. I was told that he was going to run away, but I did not believe the man, for I had so much confidence in William. I want you to see him, and see if what I say is not the truth. I do not want him as a slave, but I think that his friends, who sustain him and give him the right hand of fellowship, or he himself, could afford to pay my agent in Boston three hundred and twenty five dollars, and I will give him free papers, so that he may go wherever he wishes to. Then he can visit <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis, or any other place he may wish.</p>
				<p>This amount is just half what I paid for him. Now, if this offer suits <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown, and the Anti-Slavery Society of Boston, or Massachusetts, let me know, and I will give you the name of my agent in Boston, and forward the papers, to be given to William <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Brown as soon as the money is paid.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours respectfully,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender">Enoch Price.</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:recipient">To Emund Quincy, <abbr class="eoc">Esq.</abbr></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>While <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown would most gladly have accepted manumission papers, relieving him from all future claim of the slaveholder, and thereby making his freedom more secure, he yet felt that he could not conscientiously purchase his liberty, because, by so doing, he would be putting money into the pockets of the manstealer which did not justly belong to him. He therefore refused the offer of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Price. Notwithstanding the celebrity he had acquired in the North, as a man of genius and talent, and the general respect his high character had gained him, the slave spirit of America denied him the rights of a citizen. By the constitution of the United States he was every moment liable to be arrested, and returned to the slavery from which he had fled. His only protection from such a fate was the anomaly of the ascendancy of the public opinion over the law of the country.</p>
			<p>It has been for years thought desirable and advantageous to the cause of Negro emancipation in America, to have some talented man of colour always in Great Britain, who should be a living refutation of the doctrine of the inferiority of the African race; and it was moreover felt that none could so powerfully advocate the cause of “those in bonds” as one who had actually been “bound with them.” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown having received repeated invitations from distinguished English Abolitionists to visit Great Britain, and being chosen a delegate to the Paris Peace Congress of 1849 by the American Peace Society, and also by a convention of the coloured people of Boston, he resolved to acquiesce in the wishes of his numerous friends, and accordingly sailed from the United States on the 18th of July, 1849.</p>
			<p>On leaving America he bore with him the following testimony from the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>In consequence of the departure for England of their esteemed friend and faithful co-labourer in the cause of the American slave, William <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Brown, the Board of Management of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society would commend him to the confidence, respect, esteem, and hospitality of the friends of emancipation wherever he may travel:</p>
				<ol>
					<li>
						<p>Because he is a fugitive slave from the American house of bondage, and on the soil which gave him birth can find no spot on which he can stand in safety from his pursuers, protected by law.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Because he is a man, and not a chattel; and while as the latter, he may at any time be sold at public vendue under the American star-spangled banner, we rejoice to know that he will be recognised and protected as the former under the flag of England.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Because, for several years past, he has nobly consecrated his time and talents, at great personal hazard, and under the most adverse circumstances, to the uncompromising advocacy of the cause of his enslaved countrymen.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Because he visits England for the purpose of increasing, consolidating, and directing British humanity and piety against that horrible system of slavery in America, by which three millions of human beings, by creation the children of God, are ranked with four-footed beasts, and treated as marketable commodities.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Because he has long been in their employment as a lecturing agent in Massachusetts, and has laboured with great acceptance and success; and from the acquaintance thus formed, they are enabled to certify that he has invariably conducted himself with great circumspection, and won for himself the sympathy, respect, and friendship of a very large circle of acquaintance.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The Coloured convention unanimously passed the following resolution:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Resolved⁠—That we bid our brother, William Wells Brown, God speed in his mission to Europe, and commend him to the hospitality and encouragement of all true friends of humanity.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>In a letter to an American journal, announcing his arrival at Liverpool, he speaks as follows:</p>
			<p>“No person of my complexion can visit this country without being struck with the marked difference between the English and the Americans. The prejudice which I have experienced on all and every occasion in the United States, and to some degree on board the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Canada</i>, vanished as soon as I set foot on the soil of Britain. In America I had been bought and sold as a slave in the Southern States. In the so-called Free States I had been treated as one born to occupy an inferior position; in steamers, compelled to take my fare on the deck; in hotels, to take my meals in the kitchen; in coaches, to ride on the outside; in railways, to ride in the ‘Negro car;’ and in churches, to sit in the ‘Negro pew.’ But no sooner was I on British soil than I was recognised as a man and an equal. The very dogs in the streets appeared conscious of my manhood. Such is the difference, and such is the change that is brought about by a trip of nine days in an Atlantic steamer. … For the first time in my life, I can say ‘I am truly free.’ My old master may make his appearance here, with the constitution of the United States in his pocket, the fugitive slave law in one hand and the chains in the other, and claim me as his property; but all will avail him nothing. I can here stand and look the tyrant in the face, and tell him that I am his equal! England is, indeed, the ‘land of the free, and the home of the brave.’ ”</p>
			<p>The reception of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown at the Peace Congress in Paris was most flattering. He admirably maintained his reputation as a public speaker. His brief address upon that “war spirit of America which holds in bondage nearly four millions of his brethren,” produced a profound sensation. At its conclusion the speaker was warmly greeted by Victor Hugo, the Abbé Duguerry, Emile de Girardin, Richard Cobden, and every man of note in the assembly. At the soirée given by <abbr>M.</abbr> de Tocquerelle, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the other fêtes given to the members of the Congress, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown was received with marked attention.</p>
			<p>Having finished his Peace Mission in France, he returned to England, where he was received with a hearty welcome by some of the most influential abolitionists of this country. Most of the fugitive slaves, and in fact nearly all of the coloured men who have visited Great Britain from the United States, have come upon begging missions, either for some society or for themselves. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown has been almost the only exception. With that independence of feeling which those who are acquainted with him know to be one of his chief characteristics, he determined to maintain himself and family by his own exertions⁠—by his literary labours, and the honourable profession of a public lecturer. From nearly all the cities and large provincial towns he received invitations to lecture or address public meetings. The mayors, or other citizens of note, presided over many of these meetings. At Newcastle-upon-Tyne a soirée was given him, and an address presented by the citizens. A large and influential meeting was held at Bolton, Lancashire, which was addressed by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown, and at its close the ladies presented to him the following address:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<header>
					<p>An address, presented to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> William Wells Brown, the fugitive slave from America, by the ladies of Bolton, March 22nd, 1850:</p>
				</header>
				<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear friend and brother⁠—</span>We cannot permit you to depart from among us without giving expression to the feelings which we entertain towards yourself personally, and to the sympathy which you have awakened in our breasts for the three millions of our sisters and brothers who still suffer and groan in the prison-house of American bondage. You came among us an entire stranger; we received you for the sake of your mission; and having heard the story of your personal wrongs, and gazed with horror on the atrocities of slavery as seen through the medium of your touching descriptions, we are resolved, henceforward, in reliance on divine assistance, to render what aid we can to the cause which you have so eloquently pleaded in our presence.</p>
				<p>We have no words to express our detestation of the crimes which, in the name of liberty, are committed in the country which gave you birth. Language fails to tell our deep abhorrence of the impiety of those who, in the still more sacred name of religion, rob immortal beings not only of an earthly citizenship, but do much to prevent them from obtaining a heavenly one; and, as mothers and daughters, we embrace this opportunity of giving utterance to our utmost indignation at the cruelties perpetrated upon our sex, by a people professedly acknowledging the equality of all mankind. Carry with you, on your return to the land of your nativity, this our solemn protest against the wicked institution which, like a dark and baleful cloud, hangs over it; and ask the unfeeling enslavers, as best you can, to open the prison doors to them that are bound, and let the oppressed go free.</p>
				<p>Allow us to assure you that your brief sojourn in our town has been to ourselves, and to vast multitudes, of a character long to be remembered; and when you are far removed from us, and toiling, as we hope you may be long spared to do, in this righteous enterprise, it may be some solace to your mind to know that your name is cherished with affectionate regard, and that the blessing of the Most High is earnestly supplicated in behalf of yourself, your family, and the cause to which you have consecrated your distinguished talents.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>A most respectable and enthusiastic public meeting was held at Sheffield, to welcome <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown, and the next day he was invited to inspect several of the large establishments there. While going through the manufactory of <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Broadhead and Atkin, silver and electroplaters, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, in Love-street, and whilst he was being shown through the works, a subscription was hastily set on foot on his behalf, by the workmen and women of the establishment, which was presented to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown in the countinghouse by a deputation of the subscribers. The spokesman (the designer to <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Broadhead and Atkin) addressing <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown on behalf of the workpeople, begged his acceptance of the present as a token of esteem, as well as an expression of their sympathy in the cause he advocates, <abbr>viz.</abbr> that of the American slave. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown briefly thanked the parties for their spontaneous free will offering, accompanied as it was by a generous expression of sympathy for his afflicted brethren and sisters in bondage.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown has been in England nearly four years, and since his arrival he has travelled above twenty thousand miles through Great Britain, addressed one hundred and thirty public meetings, lectured in twenty-three mechanics and literary institutions, and given his services to many of the benevolent and religious societies on the occasion of their anniversary meetings. After a lecture, which he delivered before the Whittington Club, he received from the managers of that institution the following testimonial:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Whittington Club and Metropolitan Athenæum,<br/>
					189, Strand, June 21, 1850.</p>
				</header>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My dear sir,</p>
				<p>I have much pleasure in conveying to you the best thanks of the Managing Committee of this institution for the excellent lecture you gave here last evening, and also in presenting you in their names with an honorary membership of the club. It is hoped that you will often avail yourself of its privileges by coming amongst us. You will then see, by the cordial welcome of the members, that they protest against the odious distinctions made between man and man, and the abominable traffic of which you have been the victim.</p>
				<p>For my own part, I shall be happy to be serviceable to you in any way, and at all times be glad to place the advantages of the institution at your disposal.</p>
				<p>I am, my dear sir,</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours truly,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender"><span epub:type="z3998:signature">William Strudwicke</span>, Secretary.</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:recipient"><abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Wells Brown.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>On the 1st of August, 1851, a meeting of the most novel character was held at the Hall of Commerce, London, the chief actors being American fugitive slaves. That meeting was most ably presided over by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown, and the speeches made on the occasion by fugitive slaves were of the most interesting and creditable description. Although a residence in Canada is infinitely preferable to slavery in America, yet the climate of that country is uncongenial to the constitutions of the negroes, and their lack of education is an almost insuperable barrier to their social progress. The latter evil <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown attempted to remedy by the establishment of Manual Labour Schools in Canada for fugitive slaves. A public meeting, attended by between 3,000 and 4,000 persons, was held on the 6th of January 1851, in the City Hall, Glasgow, which was presided over by Alexander Hastie, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, <abbr class="initialism">M.P.</abbr>, at which resolutions were unanimously passed, approving of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown’s scheme; which scheme, however, never received that amount of support which would have enabled him to bring it into practice; and the plan at present only remains as an evidence of its author’s ingenuity and desire for the elevation of his oppressed and injured race. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown subsequently made, through the columns of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Times</i>, a proposition for the emigration of American fugitive slaves, under fair and honourable terms, from Canada to the West Indies, where there is a great lack of that labour which they are so capable of undertaking. These efforts all show the willingness of this fugitive slave to aid those of his race. Last year <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown published his <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Three Years in Europe; or, Places I have seen and People I have met</i>. And his literary abilities may be partly judged of from the following commendations of that ably written work:</p>
			<p>“The extraordinary excitement produced by <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Uncle Tom’s Cabin</i> will, we hope, prepare the public of Great Britain and America for this lively book of travels by a real fugitive slave. Though he never had a day’s schooling in his life, he has produced a literary work not unworthy of a highly educated gentleman. Our readers will find in these letters much instruction, not a little entertainment, and the beatings of a manly heart, on behalf of a downtrodden race, with which they will not fail to sympathise.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Eclectic</i></cite>.</p>
			<p>“When he writes on the wrongs of his race, or the events of his own career, he is always interesting or amusing.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Athenæum</i></cite>.</p>
			<p>“The appearance of this book is too remarkable a literary event to pass without a notice. At the moment when attention in this country is directed to the state of the coloured people in America, the book appears with additional advantage; if nothing else were attained by its publication, it is well to have another proof of the capability of the Negro intellect. Altogether <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown has written a pleasing and amusing volume. Contrasted with the caricature and bombast of his white countrymen, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Willis’s description of ‘People he has met,’ a comparison suggested by the similarity of the title, it is both in intellect and in style a superior performance, and we are glad to bear this testimony to the literary merit of a work by a negro author.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Literary Gazette</i></cite>.</p>
			<p>“That a man who was a slave for the first twenty years of his life, and who has never had a day’s schooling, should produce such a book as this, cannot but astonish those who speak disparagingly of the African race.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Weekly News and Chronicle</i></cite>.</p>
			<p>“This remarkable book of a remarkable man cannot fail to add to the practical protests already entered in Britain against the absolute bondage of 3,000,000 of our fellow creatures. The impression of a self-educated son of slavery here set forth, must hasten the period when the senseless and impious denial of common claims to a common humanity, on the score of colour, shall be scouted with scorn in every civilised and Christian country. And when this shall be attained, among the means of destruction of the hideous abomination, his compatriots will remember with respect and gratitude the doings and sayings of William Wells Brown. The volume consists of a sufficient variety of scenes, persons, arguments, inferences, speculations, and opinions, to satisfy and amuse the most <em>exigeant</em> of those who read <i xml:lang="fr">pour se desennuyer</i>; while those who look deeper into things, and view with anxious hope the progress of nations and of mankind, will feel that the good cause of humanity and freedom, of Christianity, enlightenment, and brotherhood, cannot fail to be served by such a book as this.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Morning Advertiser</i></cite>.</p>
			<p>“He writes with ease and ability, and his intelligent observations upon the great question to which he has devoted and is devoting his life, will be read with interest, and will command influence and respect.” <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily News</i></cite>.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown is most assiduous in his studies even at the present time. The following extract from his writings will show how he spends most of his leisure hours:</p>
			<p>“It was eight o’clock before I reached my lodgings. Although fatigued by the day’s exertions, I again resumed the reading of Roscoe’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Leo <abbr epub:type="z3998:roman">X</abbr></i>, and had nearly finished seventy-three pages, when the clock on <abbr>St.</abbr> Martin’s Church apprised me that it was two. He who escapes from slavery at the age of twenty years without any education, as did the writer of this letter, must read when others are asleep, if he would catch up with the rest of the world. ‘To be wise,’ says Pope, ‘is but to know how little can be known.’ The true searcher after truth and knowledge is always like a child; although gaining strength from year to year, he still ‘learns to labour and to wait.’ The field of labour is ever expanding before him, reminding him that he has yet more to learn; teaching him that he is nothing more than a child in knowledge, and inviting him onward with a thousand varied charms. The son may take possession of the father’s goods at his death, but he cannot inherit with the property the father’s cultivated mind. He may put on the father’s old coat, but that is all; the immortal mind of the first wearer has gone to the tomb. Property may be bequeathed but knowledge cannot. Then let him who would be useful in his generation be up and doing. Like the Chinese student who learned perseverance from the woman whom he saw trying to rub a crowbar into a needle, so should we take the experience of the past to lighten our feet through the paths of the future.”</p>
			<p>The following testimonial to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown’s abilities, from an American journal of which Frederick Douglas is editor, shows that his talents are highly appreciated in that country:</p>
			<p>“We have the pleasure to lay before our readers another interesting letter from <abbr class="initialism name">W.</abbr> Wells Brown. We rejoice to find our friend still persevering in the pursuit of knowledge, and still more do we rejoice to find such marked evidence of his rapid progress as his several letters afford. But a few years ago he was a despised, degraded, whip-scarred slave, knowing nothing of letters; and now we find him writing accounts of his travels in a distant land, of which a man reared under the most favourable educational advantages might be proud.”</p>
			<p>We should have said that it was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown’s intention to have returned to the United States to his family ere this. But the passage of the infamous “Fugitive Slave Law” prevented his returning.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown’s wife died in Buffalo <abbr class="initialism">N.Y.</abbr> in <abbr>Jan.</abbr> 1851. He has two daughters who are now in this country, being trained for teachers. Of course we need not add that for their education they are entirely dependent on their father’s exertions. During last year, the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Edward Hore, of Ramsgate, through a willingness to assist <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown in returning to the United States, wrote to his former owner, and offered him £50, if he would relinquish all claim to him, and furnish the fugitive with papers of emancipation, but the following note from the slaveowner speaks for itself:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.datelin"><abbr>St.</abbr> Louis, <abbr>Feb.</abbr> 16th, 1852.</p>
				</header>
				<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation"><abbr>Rev.</abbr> sir⁠—</span>I received your note, dated <abbr>Jan.</abbr> 6th, concerning a runaway slave of mine now known by the name of William Wells Brown. You state that I offered to take three hundred and twenty five dollars for him, and give him free papers, in 1848. I did so then, but since that time the laws of the United States are materially changed. The Fugitive Slave Bill has passed since then. I can now take him anywhere in the United States, and I have everything arranged for his arrest if he lands at any port in the United States. But I will give him papers of emancipation, properly authenticated by our statutes, for the sum of five hundred dollars (or £100) that will make him as free as any white person. If this suits your views, you can let me know, and I will have the papers made out and forwarded to Boston, to Joseph Gruley, of the firm of Charles Wilkins and <abbr>Co.</abbr>, 33, Long Wharf. The money must be paid before the papers are handed over to your agent.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Respectfully your obedient servant,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender">Enoch Price.</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:recipient">To the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Edward Hore.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
